The following figure contains a schematic representation of emotions 
(https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/41/Plutchik_emotion_wheel.png/600px-Plutchik_emotion_wheel.png) 
As you can see the emotions are interconnected with one another into one spectrum. 
Meaning that emotions flow from one into another. 
However, and this is my twist on it, 
every social entity (humans included) seems to have an emotional bias toward certain emotions over others. 
I call this the emotional equilibrium of an individual, 
meaning that every possible emotion a person could ever express will be biased toward a certain side of the plutchik wheel model 
(see link). This means that two persons will prefer certain emotions over others even given the same situation and 
rational identity (see Myer-Briggs personality type). 

The reason for this bias lies in the nature of emotions itself, 
you see emotions are a means for social entities to convey a hierarchy with one another. 
(e.g. Anger conveys a higher hierarchical position upon the one expressing it and a lower one upon the recipient). 
This bias thus serves as an innate way to reach a preferred position in the collective hierarchy 
and will thus determine how we'll prefer to act in social settings 
(how we end up acting is regulated by our rational identity). 
Now when you end up looking at that plutchik wheel diagram, you'll see the primary emotions themselves 
(ecstasy, admiration, terror, ...). The secondary emotions are a combination of two primary emotions 
(aggression, contempt, ...). My theory assumes people to innately prefer one of these secondary emotions over the others. 
Perhaps switching to other emotions as well, however the farther you end up traveling from your "emotional equilibrium" 
the less frequent you end up expressing that emotion. 
This because the secondary emotion on the opposite side of the emotional equilibrium of a person will be the 
person their deepest subconscious fear. Therefore one can conclude that certain emotions are inherently preferred 
to be consciously expressed (emotional equilibrium) while others are preferred to be subconsciously expressed 
(emotional fears/negative experiences). Now here comes the special part : your emotional equilibrium ends up 
determining how we naturally handle situations, this also means how we end up coping with stuff. 

Complete theory :
https://www.reddit.com/r/EmotionalEquilibrium
